---
title: "Clauses"
categories: [English, Grammar]
excerpt: o_0
toc: true
---

# Six common clausal/ sentcen patters.
1. The cat jumps. (S + V)
2. A dog is chasing a cat. (S + V + OBJ)
3. The girl is beautiful. (S + V + SCompliment)
4. We made him successfull. (S + V + Obj + ObjCompliment).
5. I have gim a Christmas present. (S + V + IndirectObj + DirectObj)
6. He runs fast. (S + V + ADV)  

# Two Type of Clauses.
## Independent Clauses.
* A clause (containing a subject and verb) that stand a lone and express a complete thought. AN independent clause is also a **sentence**.
  * They got married last year.
  * I wrote a letter for him.

## Dependent Clause.
* When a clause needs to attach itself to an independent clause to complete its meaning, it is called a dependent clause. A dependent clause can not stand a lone, or it be comes a **sentence fragment**.
  * **When you are free**, please come to see me.
  * **Because he was ill**, he couldn't come to class yesterday.
  
# Common Mistakes.
## Verb in the clause is missing.
* Our values today may much different from those in the past.
* -> Our values today may be much different from those in the past.

## There are two main verbs in a clause.
* The accidents happened recently in Singapore have confirm our suspicions.
* -> The accidents that happened recently in Singapore have confirm our suspicions.

## Dependent clause stands alone.
* There are few strategies that I have found to be particularly effective for learning. One of which is revising your work.
* -> There are few strategies that I have found to be particularly effective for learning, one of which is revising your work.

## Two independent clauses separated by a comma.
* Information sent by email is safe, it is more likely to be received intact. 
* -> Information sent by email is safe; it is more likely to be received intact.
* -> Information sent by email is safe. It is more likely to be received intact.


# Noun Clauses.
* A noun clause is a subordinate clause that acts as a noun.
  * Usually start with a relative pronoun: that, which, whoever, wherever, whatever, whenever.
  * Funtions in sentences:
    * Subject: *Whoever travels the Chattahoochee River* follows the yellow rafts gently floating down a peaceful track.
    * Direct object: You must pack *whatever you will need*.
    * Indirect object: You should give *whoever waits at the camp* a copy of your route.
    * Object of a Preposition: Robert Campbell settled trading camps in *whatever regions the Hudson's Bay Company sent him*.
    * Predicate Nominative: At 40, Campbell's most notable achievement was *that he established Fort Selkirk.*

# Adjective Clauses.
* An adjective clause is a subordinate clause that modifies a noun or pronoun. Adjective clauses act like adjectives.
  * Usually connected to the world it modifies by one of the relative pronouns(that which, who, whom, or whose).
  * Sometimes, it is connected by a relative adverb(after, before, since, when, where, or why).
  * Ex:
    * Artic winters, *which are long and cold*, are severe.
    * The arctic is a region *where life is diffult*.
    * She likes the guy *who sits in front of her*.

## Essential and Nonessential Adjective Clauses.
* An adjective clause that is nonessential to the basic meaning of a sentence is set off by commas. 
  * The ship, *which was a nuclear submarine*, became the first vessel to pass beneath the North Pole.

* Essential adjective clause are not set off by commas.
  * The first vessel *that passed beneath the North Pole* was a nuclear submarine.

## Practical use of Adjective Clauses.
* By using either a nonessential or an essential ajdective clause, you can often combine the ideas from two sentences into one.
  * The Arktika was the first surface ship to crack through the Arctic icepack. It was a Soviet ice breaker.
  * The Arktika, which was a Soviet icebreaker, was the first surface ship to crack the Arctic ice pack.

## Adverb clauses:
* Adverb clauses modify verbs, adjectives, adverbs or verbals by telling where, when, in what way, to what extent, under what condition, or why.
* Examples of an adverb clause is as follows:
  * verbs: The Yukon **entered** Canada's confederation *after a gold rush brought 100,000 people to the territory*.
  * adjective: The miner's children were **nervous** *whenever he entered a tunnel*.
  * adverb: Today's dig lasted longer *than the one yesterday*.
  * particple: The miners, **cheering** *whenever someone made a strike, were excited*.
  * gerund: **Digging** *wherever miners thought there was gold*  has left the Yukon full of old miners.
  * infinitive: the tired miners wanted **to relax** after the workday ended.

# Participle Clauses.
* I noticed that there had been an accident ahead and stopped my car.
  * *Having seen an accident ahead*, I stopped my car.
* When I saw the accident ahead, I stopped my car.
  * *Seeing an accident ahead*, I stopped my car.

## Explanations.
* We can use *Present participle(ing)* or *Past Particple(Ved/V3)* clause with similar meanings.
* *Past particple* form *emphasizes* that the first actions has been completed before the second action begins.
* *-ing form* mean *seeing the accident and stopping took place together*.
  * Eating a heavy breakfast/Having eaten a heavy breakfast, we prepared for our long journey.

* **Particple clause** often express **condition, reason, cause, result or time* in a similar way to full adverbial clauses.
  * *Used sparingly*, this face cream should last you until Christmas. (**If you use it sparingly**, this face cream should last you until Christmas).
  * Having taken the wrong train, I fould myself in Bath, not Bristol(Because I had taken the wrong train, I fold myself in Bath, not bristol).  

* Particple clauses, **ing** particularly can be used after various conjuntions and prepositions, such as: **when, while, before, after, on, without, instead of*.
  * Remember to take all your belongings with you *when leaving* the train.
  * *After talking* everything into consideration, we decided to sell the house.
  * *After having* driven 300 miles across country, I arrived to find the house had been sold.

* Can also be used in particple clauses as an alternative to a **since clauses**.
  * Having been invited to the party by Prince Wiliam himself, we could hardly resufe to go.(= Since we had been visited...).
  * Having been deprived of food for over twenty days, the cast away was fed intravenously at first.
  * **Having nothing left to do, Paula went home.
    * Since Paula had nothing left to do, she went home.
  * **Knowing a little Russian**, I had no difficulty making myself understood.
    * As I knew a little Russian, I had no difficulty making myself understood.
  * **Working as a sales rep**, I get to travel a lot.
    * I travel a lot because I work as a sales rep.   
